# Application-of-Transfer-Learning-on-Discremination-of-Leukemia-

**White blood cancer**, a hematological malignancy including a few subtypes such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia and multiple myeloma, accounts for 1.24 million cases and more than 7% of cancer deaths annually. Early detection of white blood cancer would accelerate the diagnosis processing and improve its efficiency. In recent years, Convolutional Neural Networks have been the state-of-the-art method for image classification instead of traditional machine learning algorithms. However, classification using Deep Neural Networks (DNN) requires large datasets, and it is not always possible to provide sufficient data for uncommon diseases. A popular approach to deal with insufficient data in machine learning is transfer learning, i.e., transfer knowledge from a pre-trained model based on a large dataset (called source domain) and use the learned weights as initialization to train a target DNN. Despite its success, many primary challenges in transfer learning must be addressed, such as training the pre-trained deep networks to be compatible with our problems, including choosing the right deep network design, modifying the training layers, and the influence of image downsampling. 

This study uses the parameters of four pre-trained DL models (GoogleNet, ResNet, VGG, and DenseNet) trained on (which datasets?) to classify healthy and cancerous blood cells from microscopic images. We trained the last few fully connected layers for our dataset, which include 30 images for ALL and 29 images for MM classes, before data augmentation. Our ultimate aim is to investigate the effect of image resolution and the robustness of architecture and the trained model by reducing the image resolution.  
